hi this is pressure soccer can you
figure out why there's a missing square
on a piece of graph paper I will draw
two triangles I'll fill the remaining
area with rectangular shapes I'm now
going to rearrange these four figures to
reconstruct the triangle in a different
way
I'll move the two triangles and then I'm
going to move the two rectangular
figures to fill the remaining area we
have now essentially reconstructed the
same triangle with the same dimensions
but we have a clear problem there's a
missing square in this new triangle
since both triangles are constructed of
the four same shapes the question is
where did this missing square come from
how is this possible this puzzle is a
classic geometric problem it's known as
a dissection puzzle and I challenge you
to figure out why there's a missing
square in the second figure if you can't
figure it out or you want to check your
solution I posted a link in the video
description to a blog post where I give
a complete explanation of why there's a
missing square and I also give the
theoretical reason for the dimensions
and how this construction works it's
pretty cool so you should definitely
check it out
thanks for watching this video I hope
you enjoyed it and please subscribe to
my channel I make videos on math and
game theory you can catch me on my blog
mind your decisions which you can follow
on Facebook Google+ and patreon you can
also catch me at pressure Locker on
Twitter Instagram Tumblr and Pinterest
and if you liked this video please check
out my books about math there's some
really cool topics that I've covered
including mental math tricks this
video itself comes from my book 40
paradoxes in logic probability and game
theory check it out there's a link in
the video description